We've talked about features
that JavaScript has and
features that JavaScript doesn't have.
We talked about features that are coming
that not every browser will support yet.
And yet people are so
inclined to use these new features or
add on these features that
JavaScript doesn't have
that we have something out there
called Transpiled Languages.
This is Typescript, ES6,
and Transpiled Languages.
So big word alert!
To transpile means to convert the syntax
of one programming language to another.
And in this case,
we're talking about languages that
don't ever actually run anywhere.
There's no engine that runs them.
Instead, they're processed
by a transpiler and
all that means is it generates JavaScript.
So you write in one language and
what you actually put out
there is just pure JavaScript
that runs in a JavaScript engine just like
we've talked about this whole course.
The first one that's
already quite popular and
will continue to be is called TypeScript
and it's provided by Microsoft.
You can go to typescriptlang.org.
If you go to the play, and I'll provide
link to these in the next lecture,
you can see that I can already,
for example, create a class.
And then that's transpiled, or
converted, to normal JavaScript,
which I would then include in
my application to actually run.
But since there's a transpiler
happening between these two,
it can also have error messages and
certain requirements.
The biggest thing about TypeScript is that
it provides types for your variables.
So if you really,
really wish JavaScript had types,
strongly type instead of dynamically
type that is, that you could say what
type a variable should be,
you can do it in TypeScript.
It also has things like class and some
other features that are coming in ES6,
so you can write your entire
application in TypeScript,
transpile it to normal JavaScript and
it will work on a whole bunch of browsers.
So, that's TypeScript.
Go ahead and take a look and mess around.
The other one that's out here
on GitHub is called Traceur.
T-R-A-C-E-U-R.
I also provide links in
the next lecture to this.
And it lets you write ES6 today.
In other words, the features of
the upcoming version of JavaScript but
it transpiles that into normal standard
ES5 JavaScript, that is what's there now.
I also provide a link to
another in browser demo
where we can write for example, a class.
[SOUND] With a constructor.
[SOUND] And set up just like we would
if I had access to these latest
version and some Greek function.
And we can see that it
might have errors or
it might not but I have methods that
are being converted to methods on the fly.
I have a constructor that's being
converted to a constructor function.
So I'm using this new feature that's
coming in JavaScript right now but
before I push out my code,
it gets converted to this JavaScript
which is what's actually run.
So this is another transpiled
language that, for example,
if you have a project starting right now,
a big JavaScript project, and
you know it's gonna be a couple years long
you might wanna consider using Traceur.
You might wanna start writing in
the next version of JavaScript.
And for now it'll just convert down to
the current version of JavaScript and
then in a couple years you
can stop using Traceur and
just directly send your
code out to production.
A lot of people are doing this,
a lot of teams for
long term JavaScript projects right now.
So, transpiled languages.
But remember, you shouldn't use
a transpiled language like Traceur or
JavaScript transpiler type
script without understanding
the code that it's creating for you
otherwise you'll get in a lot of trouble.
Alright, let's move on.